when you're in high school,
you watch Predator
maybe three times in a row on like a
rainy Saturday and you think like, you
know, I'm going to I'm I'm going to be
jacked just like Arnold was in that
movie. The problem is when you start
working out and you look at yourself in
the mirror and then you think about what
Arnold looked like in Predator, it's
really hard to connect those dots.
Because Arnold Schwarzenegger, number
one, greatest genetics ever.
Like there still hasn't been a
bodybuilder that had a chest or biceps
like Arnold. Still to this day. And
that's not even controversial. If you
look at others
as a means of motivating yourself, you
really run the risk of disappointing
yourself. Like the only thing you can be
is a better version of you.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hi. My name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective beyond what a lot
of YouTube influencers have to say.
Today, I want to talk about guaranteed
progression. I see a lot of videos about
motivation.
And especially memes. Picture of some
like really jacked guy, you know, doing
that kind of thing and it's like some
guy has been working out for 20 years or
on a whole bunch of
performance-enhancing products or
whatever. That's
not a good thing to look at as a matter
of like this is my goal. I'm going to
keep on looking at this
picture of this individual. Like, you
know, when you're when you're in high
school,
you watch Predator
maybe three times in a row on like a
rainy Saturday and you think like, you
know, I'm going to I'm I'm going to be
jacked just like Arnold was in that
movie. The problem is when you start
working out and you look at yourself in
the mirror and then you think about what
Arnold looked like in Predator, it's
really hard to connect those dots
because
Arnold Schwarzenegger, well, number one,
greatest genetics ever.
Like, there still hasn't been a
bodybuilder that had a chest or biceps
like Arnold. Still to this day. And
that's not even controversial. If you
look at others
as a means of motivating yourself
you really run the risk of disappointing
yourself. Like, the only thing you can
be
is a better version of you. Because,
guaranteed
your biceps next next week will still be
your biceps. They're not going to be
somebody else's.
So
you can make them bigger, though. And
you can make them stronger. Which is the
same subject. So, consistency
as opposed to
motivation. Like, what you really need
to do
is forget about what you're going to
look like or how strong you're going to
be in the next 5 years. It's like, yeah,
that's great. You want to be as strong
as possible. Don't focus on that. What
you need to focus on, meditate on, think
about is
let's say you're doing your chest press
with the black band and you get 13 full
reps and five partial reps.
Well, the only thing you need to think
about
is how you're going to beat one of those
one of those two numbers. So, you're
either going to get 14 reps with just as
many partials or you're going to get the
same amount of full reps and you're
going to add one partial rep. Cuz you
need
to have a greater experience every time.
And the good news is, if you do, you'll
get stronger between workouts and you
will be able to create more force.
Focusing on the numbers and sometimes
you know, when I got a couple minutes,
I'm I'm waiting somewhere, sometimes I'm
just like sitting at a stoplight and
there's a couple on my way to work that
last forever. And so, I'll just glance
at my phone and and pull up the app
where I you know where I track all my
data. And I think about like my next
workout, like what's the thing that I'm
so what what record am I so excited to
break? You know, I I look at one of them
and you know maybe later in the day
I glance at it again. And so, it's like
I'm constantly thinking like that left
leg squat, I got to get to 31 reps
with the short black band. That's that's
what I'm using right now. I'm using the
34 in so the really really really low
low bar squats.
And each time
you beat the number, it's like you're
instead of looking way off into the
distance at something that seems almost
unrealistic, you're getting there.
With each workout, you you focus on what
you're going to get and then you get it.
And then you just repeat the cycle over
again. And I know that sounds mundane
and it sounds like you know some like
some high school stuff that like your
coach would tell you, but it is the way
champions are made. Everybody just
competed with themselves. That's how
they got there. You just have to come
back stronger every single time. And if
you're using variable resistance, if
you're optimizing your hormones, now
your hormones may be optimized already.
I'm not saying you have to go and do
anything other than what your body is
naturally doing, but you should know.
Take a look at at hormonal health. And
uh you got to get the right amount of uh
amino acids or protein so that your body
has the building blocks to build the
musculature. And that's as simple as it
is. Hope that helped and uh ask any
questions in the comments. See you on
the next one. If this video helped you,
I want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights.
We've got the answer for you.